README.md, before:

# 🛒 Superstore Sales & Profit Analysis Dashboard

## 📌 Project Overview
This project analyzes Superstore retail sales data to uncover insights into sales performance, customer behavior, and regional trends.

An interactive Excel dashboard was built to help track KPIs, monitor monthly trends, and support faster business decision-making.

---

## 🎯 Objectives
- Analyze sales and profit performance
- Identify top-performing regions, cities, and segments
- Track monthly sales trends
- Detect high and low demand periods
- Enable quick KPI monitoring

---

## 🛠 Tools & Skills Used
- Microsoft Excel
- Pivot Tables
- Slicers
- Charts & Visualizations
- Advanced Formulas
- Data Cleaning

---

## 📊 Dataset
- 35,000+ sales records
- 900+ transactions
- Fields: Region, City, Segment, Category, Sales, Profit, Order Date

---

## 📈 Dashboard Features
- KPI cards (Sales, Profit, Orders)
- Region-wise performance
- Category & segment breakdown
- Monthly trend analysis
- Interactive slicers for filtering

---

## 🔍 Key Insights
- West region generated highest transactions
- New York & Los Angeles are top-performing cities
- Consumer segment drives most orders
- Office Supplies category contributes highest volume
- Monthly trends show clear seasonal peaks

---

## 💼 Business Impact
Reduced manual reporting and enabled real-time monitoring of sales KPIs, supporting faster data-driven decisions for marketing, inventory, and operations.

---

## 📸 Dashboard Preview
<img width="1279" height="518" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cdf04e2c-ba1f-4d3d-8a25-fe768f490f5c" />


---

## 📂 Files
- data → dataset
- dashboard → Excel dashboard file
- screenshots → visuals

---

## 🚀 How to Use
1. Download the Excel file
2. Open in Microsoft Excel
3. Use slicers to interact with dashboard

---

## 👤 Author
Ashish Verma  
Aspiring Data Analyst  
LinkedIn: (your link)

Commit message:

Update LinkedIn link format in README

README.md, after:

# 🛒 Superstore Sales & Profit Analysis Dashboard

## 📌 Project Overview
This project analyzes Superstore retail sales data to uncover insights into sales performance, customer behavior, and regional trends.

An interactive Excel dashboard was built to help track KPIs, monitor monthly trends, and support faster business decision-making.

---

## 🎯 Objectives
- Analyze sales and profit performance
- Identify top-performing regions, cities, and segments
- Track monthly sales trends
- Detect high and low demand periods
- Enable quick KPI monitoring

---

## 🛠 Tools & Skills Used
- Microsoft Excel
- Pivot Tables
- Slicers
- Charts & Visualizations
- Advanced Formulas
- Data Cleaning

---

## 📊 Dataset
- 35,000+ sales records
- 900+ transactions
- Fields: Region, City, Segment, Category, Sales, Profit, Order Date

---

## 📈 Dashboard Features
- KPI cards (Sales, Profit, Orders)
- Region-wise performance
- Category & segment breakdown
- Monthly trend analysis
- Interactive slicers for filtering

---

## 🔍 Key Insights
- West region generated highest transactions
- New York & Los Angeles are top-performing cities
- Consumer segment drives most orders
- Office Supplies category contributes highest volume
- Monthly trends show clear seasonal peaks

---

## 💼 Business Impact
Reduced manual reporting and enabled real-time monitoring of sales KPIs, supporting faster data-driven decisions for marketing, inventory, and operations.

---

## 📸 Dashboard Preview
<img width="1279" height="518" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cdf04e2c-ba1f-4d3d-8a25-fe768f490f5c" />


---

## 📂 Files
- data → dataset
- dashboard → Excel dashboard file
- screenshots → visuals

---

## 🚀 How to Use
1. Download the Excel file
2. Open in Microsoft Excel
3. Use slicers to interact with dashboard

---

## 👤 Author
Ashish Verma  
Aspiring Data Analyst  
[LinkedIn]: (www.linkedin.com/in/ashish-tailor-1b5672306)
